# C_Programming_2025

# Course Description:
This course introduces the fundamentals of programming for problem solving using C language for coding. It starts with the basics of the stored program model and data representation in computers and general problem-solving strategies. Then it introduces the program design using flowcharts and pseudocode. After a brief overview of compilation, it introduces C language constructs for operators and expressions and control flow. Program modularity, documentation, debugging and testing are introduced as general concepts, followed by functions, the standard library, arrays, dynamic memory allocation, pointers and structures in C. The course also covers the basics of AI-assisted coding and analyzing code generated by AI coding assistants.

# Course Educational Objectives:
The course objectives are:
● To teach the student how to design algorithmic solutions in the form of flowcharts and pseudocode.
● To teach the student how to convert algorithms to high-level programs.
● To enable the student to code, test and debug using C language.
● To expose the student to efficient AI-assisted coding practices.

# Week 1(Introduction):
Basic components of a computer, the Von Neumann architecture and the stored program model, binary and hexadecimal number systems, conversion from decimal to binary to hexadecimal systems and vise versa, representation of data in a computer (numbers - integers and floating point, text - ASCII and UniCode, images - black and white, grayscale and RGB, audio and video).

# Week 2 (Introduction to Problem Solving through Programs):
Flowcharts/Pseudo codes, Introduction to Problem-solving (Textbook 2, Chapter1, Sections 1.1 and 1.2): Problem definition,Getting started on a problem, The use of specific examples, Similarities among problems,Working backwards from a solution,General problem-solving strategies;C language: The compilation process, Syntax and Semantic errors.

# Week 3 (Types, Operators and Expressions):
C language: Variable Names, Data Types and Sizes, Constants, Declarations,  Arithmetic Operators, Relational and Logical Operators, Type Conversions, Increment and Decrement Operators, Bitwise Operators,  Assignment Operators and Expressions,Conditional Expressions, Precedence and Order of Evaluation.

# Week 4 (Control Flow):
C language: Statements and Blocks, If-Else and Else-If , Switch;Top-down Design (Textbook 2, Chapter1, Section 1.3): Breaking a problem into sub-problems, Choice of a suitable data structure,Construction of loops- establishing the initial conditions, finding the iterative construct, termination of loops;C language: Loops - While and For, Loops - Do-While, Break and Continue, Goto and labels.

# Week 5 (Functions and Program Structure):
Implementation of Algorithms: Use of procedures to emphasize modularity, Choice of variable names, Documentation of programs, Debugging programs, Program testing;
C language: Basics of Functions, Functions Returning Non-integers,  External Variables.

# Week 6 (Functions and Program Structure (cont.)):
C language: Scope Rules, Header Files,  Static Variables, Register Variables,  Block Structure,  Initialization

# Week 7 (Standard library):

C language: Input and Output: <stdio.h>, Formatted Output, Formatted Input,  Character Input and Output Functions, Direct Input
and Output Functions, Character Class Tests: <ctype.h> , String Functions: <string.h>,  Mathematical Functions: <math.h>, Utility
Functions: <stdlib.h>

# Week 8 (Functions and Program Structure (cont.))

C language: Recursion, The C Preprocessor, File Inclusion, Macro Substitution, Conditional Inclusion

# Week 9 (Pointers and Arrays)

C language: Pointers and Addresses, Pointers and Function Arguments, Pointers and Arrays, Address Arithmetic, Character
Pointers and Functions

# Week 10 ( Pointers and Arrays (cont.)): 
C language: Pointer Arrays (Pointers to Pointers),  Multi-dimensional Arrays, Initialization of Pointer Arrays, Pointers vs. Multi-dimensional Arrays, Command-line Arguments, Pointers to Functions

# Week 11 (Structures):  
C language: Basics of Structures,  Structures and Functions, Arrays of Structures, Pointers to Structures

# Week 12 (Structures (cont.)): 
C language: Table Lookup, Typedef, Unions,  Bit-fields

# Week 13: Basics of AI-assisted coding using GitHub Copilot / CodiumAI (References 2 and 3)

# Week 14: Code comprehension - analyzing AI-generated Code

# Week 15: Mini Project
